feat(curriculum): create bash and sql quiz (#56573)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/25-front-end-development/quiz-bash-and-sql/66f1affc0ef4fcca423d4688.md

# --description--

> What makes SQL different from other programming languages, such as Python or Java?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Answer all of the questions below correctly to pass the quiz.
```

let's leave this line as is, and add the question below where it should go

> What makes SQL different from the other sort of programming languages, which include Python or Java?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
What makes SQL different from other programming languages, such as Python or Java?
```

#### --distractors--

SQL is a compiled language, whereas Python and Java are interpreted languages.

---

SQL is mainly used for the back-end website, whereas Python and Java are used in front-end website development.

---

SQL is case-sensitive, whereas Python and Java are case-insensitive.

#### --answer--

SQL is a specialized language for managing data in relational databases, while languages like Python or Java have a broader range of applications.

### --question--

#### --text--

Which of these statements best describes the fundamental nature and purpose of SQL?

#### --distractors--

> SQL is a procedural programming language designed specifically for building an interactive Web application but it relies heavily on database interaction to generate dynamic content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
SQL is a procedural programming language designed specifically for building an interactive web application but it relies heavily on database interaction to generate dynamic content.
```

---

SQL is a programming language that allows developers direct access to a computer's hardware in order to maximize the efficiency at which data is stored and retrieved from the database.

---

> SQL is a markup language that marks, format, and structures data for presentation on a web page such that they would be viewable through any web browser.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
SQL is a markup language that marks, formats, and structures data for presentation on a web page such that they would be viewable through any web browser.
```

#### --answer--

SQL is a query language used to retrieve specific information from data tables within a relational database management system.

### --question--

#### --text--

Which of the following is an example of why it is important to know when to use fixed-length and when to use variable-length data types in SQL?

#### --distractors--

To hold a list of telephone numbers since, in most systems, telephone numbers are either strictly character or numeric and therefore have a fixed length.

---

To hold product prices since price is generally held as a numeric or monetary value.

---

To hold dates of birth, since each date follows the same format.

#### --answer--

> To hold customer reviews: The length of review may vary to a great extent.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To hold customer reviews, since the length of reviews may vary to a great extent.
```

### --question--

#### --text--

If a database designer mistakenly chooses `INTEGER` as the data type to hold customer loyalty points when in fact the points may include fractional values, most probably, what happens?

#### --distractors--

The database will deny accepting any insert operation when there are points with fractional values to avoid any inaccuracies in the system.

---

SQL will change the data type automatically to DECIMAL or FLOAT to accommodate the fractional values.

---

The database will store the fractional points in text strings form. Storage space increases with complication in calculations.

#### --answer--

The fractional part of the points will be truncated, leading to a loss of data accuracy and potentially causing customer dissatisfaction.

### --question--

#### --text--

Suppose you are designing a database to hold data about books. You need to keep track of title, year published, and whether loaned out or not. What SQL data type would you use for each of these attributes?

#### --distractors--

> Title: `INTEGER`, PublicationYear: `DATE`, IsAvailable: `BOOLEAN`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Title: INTEGER, PublicationYear: DATE, IsAvailable: BOOLEAN`
```

---

> Title: `VARCHAR`, PublicationYear: `INTEGER`, IsAvailable: `TEXT`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Title: VARCHAR, PublicationYear: INTEGER, IsAvailable: TEXT`
```

---

> Title: `CHAR(100)`, PublicationYear: `INTEGER`, IsAvailable: `VARCHAR(3)`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Title: CHAR(100), PublicationYear: INTEGER, IsAvailable: VARCHAR(3)`
```

#### --answer--

> Title: `VARCHAR`, PublicationYear: `INTEGER`, IsAvailable: `BOOLEAN`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Title: VARCHAR, PublicationYear: INTEGER, IsAvailable: BOOLEAN`
```

### --question--

#### --text--

What SQL clause is used to filter data based on a specified condition within a subset of rows that have been grouped by a specified condition?

#### --distractors--

`WHERE`

---

`ORDER BY`

---

`LIMIT`

#### --answer--

`HAVING`

### --question--

#### --text--

> What command would you use to redirect the errors of a command to a file named "errors.log"?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
What command would you use to redirect the errors of a command to a file named `errors.log`?
```

#### --distractors--

`2>&1 > errors.log`

---

`> errors.log`

---

`>> errors.log`

#### --answer--

`2> errors.log`

### --question--

#### --text--

You are working on a Linux system and need to write a bash script that performs these tasks:

> 1. List all files and folders, including hidden ones, within the "/home/user" directory.
> 2. Copy all ".txt" files from the "/home/user" directory to a folder named "text_backup" within the current directory.
> 3. Delete all files with the ".tmp" extension in the "/home/user" directory, asking for confirmation before deleting each file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. List all files and folders, including hidden ones, within the "/home/user" directory.
2. Copy all `.txt` files from the `/home/user` directory to a folder named `text_backup` within the current directory.
3. Delete all files with the `.tmp` extension in the `/home/user` directory, asking for confirmation before deleting each file.
```

#### --distractors--

> ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```bash
````

ls -a /home/user
cp *.txt text_backup/
rm -i *.tmp
```

---

> ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```bash
````

ls -a /home/user
cp *.txt /home/user/text_backup/
rm -rf /home/user/*.tmp
```

---

> ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```bash
````

ls -a /home/user
cp /home/user/*.txt /home/user/text_backup/
rm -i *.tmp
```

#### --answer--

> ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```bash
````

ls -a /home/user
cp /home/user/*.txt text_backup/
rm -i /home/user/*.tmp 
```

### --question--

#### --text--

You are designing a database for a music store. You need to keep track of albums and their artists. You have two tables:

**Table: Albums**

> | Column Name | Data Type  | Constraints |
> |-------------|------------|-------------|
> | AlbumID     | INT        | PRIMARY KEY |
> | AlbumTitle   | VARCHAR(255) | NOT NULL   |
> | ReleaseYear  | INT        |             |

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```md
| Column Name | Data Type  | Constraints |
|-------------|------------|-------------|
| AlbumID     | INT        | PRIMARY KEY |
| AlbumTitle   | VARCHAR(255) | NOT NULL   |
| ReleaseYear  | INT        |             |
```
````

**Table: Artists**

> | Column Name | Data Type  | Constraints |
> |-------------|------------|-------------|
> | ArtistID    | INT        | PRIMARY KEY |
> | ArtistName  | VARCHAR(255) | NOT NULL   |

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```md
| Column Name | Data Type  | Constraints |
|-------------|------------|-------------|
| ArtistID    | INT        | PRIMARY KEY |
| ArtistName  | VARCHAR(255) | NOT NULL   |
```
````

You need to ensure that each album is associated with the correct artist.  

**Question:** What is the best way to represent the relationship between the Albums table and Artists table, given that an artist can have multiple albums? 

#### --distractors--

Add a column named `ArtistName` to the Albums table.

---

Add a column named `AlbumTitle` to the Artists table.

---

Create a new table called `AlbumsArtists` with both `AlbumID` and `ArtistID`  as foreign keys.

#### --answer--

Add a column named `ArtistID` to the Albums table as a foreign key referencing the `ArtistID` in the Artists table.

### --question--

#### --text--

You have been given a task to create a database that can hold information of customers and their addresses for some company. You would assume that you are to record all the details of the customers and should let a customer hold multiple addresses.

Consider the following two tables:

**Table: Customers**

> | Column Name | Data Type    | Constraints |
> | :---------- | :----------- | :---------- |
> | CustomerID  | INT          | PRIMARY KEY |
> | FirstName   | VARCHAR(255) | NOT NULL   |
> | LastName    | VARCHAR(255) | NOT NULL   |
> | Email       | VARCHAR(255) |             |

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```md
| Column Name | Data Type    | Constraints |
| :---------- | :----------- | :---------- |
| CustomerID  | INT          | PRIMARY KEY |
| FirstName   | VARCHAR(255) | NOT NULL   |
| LastName    | VARCHAR(255) | NOT NULL   |
| Email       | VARCHAR(255) |             |
```
````

**Table: Addresses**

> | Column Name | Data Type    | Constraints |
> | :---------- | :----------- | :---------- |
> | AddressID   | INT          | PRIMARY KEY |
> | CustomerID  | INT          |             |
> | Street      | VARCHAR(255) | NOT NULL   |
> | City        | VARCHAR(255) | NOT NULL   |
> | State       | VARCHAR(255) | NOT NULL   |
> | ZipCode     | VARCHAR(10)  | NOT NULL   |

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```md
| Column Name | Data Type    | Constraints |
| :---------- | :----------- | :---------- |
| AddressID   | INT          | PRIMARY KEY |
| CustomerID  | INT          |             |
| Street      | VARCHAR(255) | NOT NULL   |
| City        | VARCHAR(255) | NOT NULL   |
| State       | VARCHAR(255) | NOT NULL   |
| ZipCode     | VARCHAR(10)  | NOT NULL   |
```
````

### --question--

#### --text--

You are developing a database for a movie streaming service. You have tables for Movies and Actors. Each movie can have multiple actors and actors can appear in many movies.

**Question:** What is the PRIMARY disadvantage of using a single table to store both movie and actor data in this scenario?

#### --distractors--

Increased complexity when querying for movies featuring a specific actor.

---

Difficulty in adding new movies or actors to the database.

---

Inability to represent the relationship between movies and actors effectively.

#### --answer--

Data redundancy, potentially leading to inconsistencies and storage inefficiencies.

### --question--

#### --text--

You are on a Linux server you suspect to have high utilization of system resources, specifically CPU usage and memory usage by processes. You want real-time view with dynamically updated dynamic view of the processes. Which command would you use?

#### --distractors--

`ps -ef`

---

`tload`

---

`w`

#### --answer--

`top`

### --question--

#### --text--

> You have a text file named "shopping_list.txt" located in your Documents directory. You would like to append "Milk" as a new entry to the end of your shopping list. What is the command to accomplish this?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You have a text file named `shopping_list.txt` located in your Documents directory. You would like to append `"Milk"` as a new entry to the end of your shopping list. What is the command to accomplish this?
```

#### --distractors--

`cat Milk >> ~/Documents/shopping_list.txt`

---

`echo Milk > ~/Documents/shopping_list.txt`

---

`cat Milk > ~/Documents/shopping_list.txt`

#### --answer--

`echo Milk >> ~/Documents/shopping_list.txt`

### --question--

#### --text--

> You downloaded a compressed archive called "notes.tar.gz" from the internet. You need to unarchive this file in a directory called "study_materials" that you've already created in your home directory. Which command would you use?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You downloaded a compressed archive called `notes.tar.gz` from the internet. You need to extract this file in a directory called `study_materials` that you've already created in your home directory. Which command would you use?
```

#### --distractors--

`tar -zcvf ~/study_materials notes.tar.gz`

---

`tar -jxvf notes.tar.gz ~/study_materials`

---

`gzip -ztf notes.tar.gz ~/study_materials`

#### --answer--

`tar -zxvf notes.tar.gz ~/study_materials`

### --question--

#### --text--

> You have a database table named `orders` with one column named `order_date`, showing the date each order was placed. Your task is to write a SQL query that retrieves all the orders taken in the year 2022. Of which one of the following statements is true?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You have a database table named `orders` with one column named `order_date`, showing the date each order was placed. Your task is to write a SQL query that retrieves all the orders taken in the year 2022. Which command would do so?
```

#### --distractors--

`SELECT * FROM orders WHERE YEAR(order_date) = 2022;`

---

`SELECT * FROM orders WHERE order_date LIKE '%2022%';`

---

`SELECT * FROM orders WHERE order_date BETWEEN '2022-01-01' AND '2022-12-31';`

#### --answer--

> `All of the above options would work.`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All of these options would work.
```

Answers are shuffled.

---

A parameterized query is a SQL statement that is encrypted before being sent to the database server, making it impossible for attackers to read or modify.

#### --answer--

A parameterized query is a SQL statement that uses placeholders for user-supplied values, which are treated separately from the query code by the database server.

### --question--

#### --text--

Which of the following is NOT a recommended practice for preventing SQL injection attacks?

#### --distractors--

Implementing robust server-side input validation to sanitize and filter user data

---

Utilizing a Web Application Firewall (WAF) to filter malicious traffic and block attacks

---

Adhering to the principle of least privilege by granting minimal database permissions to application accounts

#### --answer--

Storing sensitive data, such as passwords, in plain text within the database

### --question--

#### --text--

Which of the following actions is LEAST likely to be part of an attacker's initial attempts to identify an SQL injection weakness in a web application?

#### --distractors--

> Submitting common SQL commands, like 'SELECT' or 'UNION,' as part of user input

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Submitting common SQL commands, like `SELECT` or `UNION`, as part of user input
```

---

SQL is case-sensitive, whereas Python and Java are case-insensitive.

#### --answer--

SQL is a specialized language for managing data in relational databases, while languages like Python or Java have a broader range of applications.

### --question--

#### --text--

Which of these statements best describes the fundamental nature and purpose of SQL?

#### --distractors--

SQL is a procedural programming language designed specifically for building an interactive web application but it relies heavily on database interaction to generate dynamic content.

---

SQL is a programming language that allows developers direct access to a computer's hardware in order to maximize the efficiency at which data is stored and retrieved from the database.

---

SQL is a markup language that marks, formats, and structures data for presentation on a web page such that they would be viewable through any web browser.

#### --answer--

SQL is a query language used to retrieve specific information from data tables within a relational database management system.

### --question--

#### --text--

> Which of the following is an example of why it is important to know when to use fixed-length and when to use variable-length data types in SQL?

Reviewer 3: I'm a bit confused by this question. All options look like example why that's important. Is the question trying to ask which one should have variable length?

### --question--

#### --text--

Suppose you are designing a database to hold data about books. You need to keep track of title, year published, and whether loaned out or not. What SQL data type would you use for each of these attributes?

#### --distractors--

`Title: INTEGER, PublicationYear: DATE, IsAvailable: BOOLEAN`

---

`Title: VARCHAR, PublicationYear: INTEGER, IsAvailable: TEXT`

---

`Title: CHAR(100), PublicationYear: INTEGER, IsAvailable: VARCHAR(3)`

#### --answer--

`Title: VARCHAR, PublicationYear: INTEGER, IsAvailable: BOOLEAN`

### --question--

#### --text--

What SQL clause is used to filter data based on a specified condition within a subset of rows that have been grouped by a specified condition?

#### --distractors--

`WHERE`

---

`ORDER BY`

---

`LIMIT`

#### --answer--

`HAVING`

### --question--

#### --text--

What command would you use to redirect the errors of a command to a file named `errors.log`?

#### --distractors--

`2>&1 > errors.log`

---

`> errors.log`

---

`>> errors.log`

#### --answer--

`2> errors.log`

### --question--

#### --text--

You are working on a Linux system and need to write a bash script that performs these tasks:

> 1. List all files and folders, including hidden ones, within the "/home/user" directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. List all files and folders, including hidden ones, within the `/home/user` directory.
```

**Table: Customers**

```md
| Column Name | Data Type    | Constraints |
| :---------- | :----------- | :---------- |
| CustomerID  | INT          | PRIMARY KEY |
| FirstName   | VARCHAR(255) | NOT NULL   |
| LastName    | VARCHAR(255) | NOT NULL   |
| Email       | VARCHAR(255) |             |
```

**Table: Addresses**

```md
| Column Name | Data Type    | Constraints |
| :---------- | :----------- | :---------- |
| AddressID   | INT          | PRIMARY KEY |
| CustomerID  | INT          |             |
| Street      | VARCHAR(255) | NOT NULL   |
| City        | VARCHAR(255) | NOT NULL   |
| State       | VARCHAR(255) | NOT NULL   |
| ZipCode     | VARCHAR(10)  | NOT NULL   |
```

**Question:** How would you best establish the relationship between the Customers and Addresses tables, so that the address is correctly associated with a given customer, given the fact that each customer can have more than one address?

#### --distractors--

Add a column named `AddressID` to the Customers table.

---

Add columns for `Street`, `City`, `State`, and `ZipCode` to the Customers table.

---

Combine the Customers and Addresses tables into a single table.

#### --answer--

> Add a column named `CustomerID` to the Addresses table as a foreign key referencing the `CustomerID` in the Customers table.

Reviewer 3: There's already `CustomerID` column in `Addresses`.

### --question--

#### --text--

You are developing a database for a movie streaming service. You have tables for Movies and Actors. Each movie can have multiple actors and actors can appear in many movies.

> **Question:** What is the PRIMARY disadvantage of using a single table to store both movie and actor data in this scenario?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
What is the PRIMARY disadvantage of using a single table to store both movie and actor data in this scenario?
```

> 

Reviewer: there is still written "Placeholder question" above this line, this should be the question

#### --distractors--

`WHERE`

---

`ORDER BY`

---

`LIMIT`

#### --answer--

`HAVING`

### --question--

#### --text--

What command would you use to redirect the errors of a command to a file named `errors.log`?

#### --distractors--

`2>&1 > errors.log`

---

`> errors.log`

---

`>> errors.log`

#### --answer--

`2> errors.log`

### --question--

#### --text--

You are working on a Linux system and need to write a bash script that performs these tasks:
1. List all files and folders, including hidden ones, within the "/home/user" directory.
2. Copy all `.txt` files from the `/home/user` directory to a folder named `text_backup` within the current directory.
3. Delete all files with the `.tmp` extension in the `/home/user` directory, asking for confirmation before deleting each file.

#### --distractors--

```bash
ls -a /home/user
cp *.txt text_backup/
rm -i *.tmp
```

---

```bash
ls -a /home/user
cp *.txt /home/user/text_backup/
rm -rf /home/user/*.tmp
```

---

```bash
ls -a /home/user
cp /home/user/*.txt /home/user/text_backup/
rm -i *.tmp

> ```
> 

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```
````
let's remove this extra empty line added accidentally

Reviewer 4: okay on it
